What is flow designer?
Flow Designer is a Now Platform® feature that enables process owners to automate work. Build multi-step flows from reusable components without having to code.
Flow Designer is the default Now Platform process automation builder used to create flows. Flow Designer replaces the legacy Workflow graphical editor.

Benefits of flow designer:
->Automating in single platform.
->Natural language process
->Reusability
->Reduce syntax error issues.
->Reduce upgrade cost and maintainance.
->Easy feature of integration.

Components of flow designer:
1.flows:
flows are similar to workflow in servicenow.
flow is an automated process which has sequence of actions and a trigger. it automate business logic for a particular applications or process.

2.Sub-flow:
sub-flow is an automated process which has sequence of actions however it takes data input that allow the processs to be started from a flow.

3.Actions:
Action is a reusable operationthat enable to automate different feature in servicenow platform writing a case.

Types of flow designer trigger in servicenow:
1.Record based: Record get created or updated in the table.
2.Date / Schedule based: Example: Daily, Weekly, Monthly, etc.
3.Application-based: Example: SLA task, Inbound email, etc.

Flow Designer vs Workflow:

If you are creating something new, start with flow designer. However, there are a few cases you will need to use Workflow, as follows:

Instance is running on a release earlier than Kingston.
If the process requires complicated or scripted logic, it can be written in a Workflow and called from a flow.
Changing logic already developed using Workflows.
SLA timer is required.
Steps required do not exist yet in Flow Designer and require unsupported protocols.
 

Use Flow Designer when:

Instance is running Kingston release or later.
Process owners need to use natural language and low code way to automate approvals, task, notifications and record operations.
New logic needs to be developed and it has not been created in workflow.
Business logic needs to use the library of reusable actions across multiple flows. 

